---
layout: post
title: Herman Ching - Caveman first painting
date: '2015-11-16T18:56:00.000Z'
author: Richard Bradshaw
tags: 
modified_time: '2015-11-16T18:57:29.179Z'
blogger_id: tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-8318661666872903125.post-2461493821554845868
blogger_orig_url: http://www.thefriendlytester.co.uk/2015/11/herman-ching-caveman-first-painting.html
---

So about a month ago, a ran a competition to win one of five tickets to TestBashNY. Part of the deal of entering the competition was that, if you won, you would agree to write a short post/article about your day at TestBashNY.<br /><br />Here is Herman Ching talking about his TestBashNY experience.<br /><br /><blockquote class="tr_bq">Test bash, was great in it’s mature offering and highly accepting of the seemingly young community of testers. After the conference was over and a few drinks, I felt satisfied that the conference was worthy of my time. I will be attending my first few meet ups in New York city soon.<br /><br />It was my first time at testing conference, my first time writing anything published on a public blog and my second time writing this. I walked in waiting and sitting in a chair in a dark theatre. With time master Mark on the mike, I was ensure a very prompt schedule.<br /><br />From collaboration to profanity, it was a wide range of offerings. I could make a few recommendations but I am going to hold onto those. I learn a few things I will be taking back to my work but I am not going to share those either. I want to eliminate bias which I did have a lot of the first time I wrote about my experience a test bash. Let this conversation set the tone and hopefully that alone will entice you to review the content that was offered if not the mysterious I seem to have just created should grow some curiosity.<br /><br />The talks set a tone I immediately could not relate to until the plethora of 99 second talks.  Someone asked me half way through during the break, what did I think of the talk. I did not have an answer. Normally my immediate go to response was “it was good, I am learning a lot”. I kept that aside and instead said “I wasn’t sure yet, still a lot of content to digest”. One could easily recommend just view the videos/presentations online once it was over. I had to take something away from this conference that static could not offer. Time to start talking.<br /><br />Beyond personal stories from audience or advise from the speakers, I could say my biggest inspiration came from the concern, the lack of exposure the general community had around testing. Being a father of two, I could relate to Anna who wanted to created more exposure. Additionally from Helena seemingly water colored presentation and Selena growing hooks into the community, I want to give back. I am inspired to make a children book on testing and I hope to make it available to the testing community. This whole conference entice me to do just that. I could only imagine what’s it doing it for everyone else.</blockquote>